## 1. Team name: www.boat.com

## 2. Application name: Disc Cover

## 3. Team Overview
- Thomas Buckley (2v)

## 4. Application Idea
The goal of the application is to find new music for a user related to what they already listen to by suggesting 10 new albums. Since new or independent artists are often not fairly compensated for their work, this site will have the goal of recomending music from these newer arists. Recommended albums will include direct Bandcamp links to physical media or other ways to support the artist. There will also be functionality to listen to these albums on Spotify and generate a new playlist from these albums. The goal is to allow the user to be able to find new music and simultaneously support up-and-coming artists in their favorite genre. The data this site will use is genre information from songs in the user's playlists, top genres from their Spotify account, the new-releases page on bandcamp (https://bandcamp.com/tag/new-releases) and the trending releases page on Discogs (https://www.discogs.com/search/?type=release&sort=hot%2Cdesc&ev=em_tr). Data on pricing information and physical media formats will also be used for the 10 albums that are chosen.

## 5. Functionality
The user of the website connects with their Spotify account and from this it will automatically determine their top 3 genres by sorting occurences of these genres in their public and liked playlists. If the user does not have a Spotify account, they can manually input some genres to the webpage and it will use this data in the same way. From this, we will filter the BandCamp and Discogs results for these genres with a preference for newer releases. If the user did connect a Spotify account, we can filter out albums that already exists in the user's playlists. Next, once the top albums are chosen, we will scrape data from each of these about where they can be purchased and also if the music is available on Spotify. The user will have an option to export a playlist made from these albums to their spotify account if they have connected one. 
For the layout of the site, the right half will contain a vertical list of albums complete with the album cover and associated links and data directly adjacent to these album covers. Each album cover will also have a select box labeled with "add to playlist" so that the user can choose which albums they want to compile into a playlist. On the left side, the user's spotify account name will be displayed along with their top 3 genres and an option to add more genres and generate new albums results. If results are regenerated, the site will remember what albums were already recommended and avoid recommending those again.
Information on using the Spotify API was found here: https://developer.spotify.com/documentation/general/guides/working-with-playlists/